[Music]
share this case any see my screen all
right so welcome to another session of
dynamic data and capabilities we can do
by the way I will are you recording
already there all right so for this
session I'm gonna I'm going to
coordinate it I'll be taking the lead
and I will need a note keyboard note
taker
sorry no takers anyone into their own on
to volunteer for note-taking no one sure
I can do it alright thank you very much
that so if you haven't already put your
name in the list of items please do it
we're gonna follow the order of
attendees for these are plates and
because we already we only have 30
minutes for these meeting we just gonna
do the first part which is the updates
session and you're gonna skip the second
part of the demos and discussions and
questions so I think that as I think the
people missing here wanna wait a bit but
if you're at the event already added to
your notes to that gene that is due at
the end of the documents and let's start
by the round of updates introductions
and updates by the following order
they were just find it out for me so I'm
the first funny actually
so I'm Andrew Cruz I'm working for the
working group that I'm in beta and I
mainly focus on identity and in terms of
my updates I've concluded to draft
papers for the reboot of was moved by
West Conference that will be held in
Barcelona in the in upcoming two weeks I
think so those draft document documents
were submitted but our I will be
obtaining them and improving them over
over the next few days and also I've
kick-started the IDM project in terms of
the management
basically there's the the PM IBM pepper
on ipfs shipyard I've had a team there
I've also added but basically a lot of
issues following the scrum methodology
so basically we have user stories and
then we have tasks and we organize those
user stories and tasks and screams the
springs have two weeks so we have the
planning by that by the start of the
first week and we have the review and
retrospective by the end of the second
week if you want to follow the progress
you may go into that link that I put
there in the documents so you can follow
the you know the basic of the columns of
the backlog and progress and then and
review step we're going to put put
everything there I mean the Whitney is
still empty but one of the tasks that I
have complete with me make everything
open like the team and how the
milestones that we have and all of that
I've also made some clicks regarding the
the information architecture diagram
about IBM I've been giving these within
Rosa and I think the one that we have
now is is more final in terms of what
I'm doing now as I said I'm working on
the concept paper and also The Spectator
it's a work in progress
I'm I'll be working on them on for the
next couple of days next steps I will be
working as I said on the with me of the
pmid I'm reco we have more information
there and also we starting working on
the ID ID module which is a and we
expect an NPM module that will be used
to manage the di development by his own
IP ID I will be doing this with with
colleagues that also is also
participating by the M which is follow
you will be working with me on the on
this and I think that's all for me the
next one is adding
oh sorry it's actually an racism nice I
wanna write my name at the end I can't
really use scrip pad okay it's using it
in chrome on Android is not not good
okay I'll put your name then let's pick
up your handle all right I have to edit
you and then so next one is and whistles
oh you wrote a note this thing you can't
join the zoom called finally connected
hey guys in Apple TV hey guys hear me
yes okay yeah sorry I was setting up
here so sorry for the delay I couldn't
join the the call sorry some coke
you just swapped for the grape vine so
okay for this week I've completed a set
of tasks regarding IBM today I've made
two commits one with the initial style
guide portion with the specs which is
the HTML file that you can use to start
implementing the this draft version also
I've made another commit with the fonts
WebKit already prepared all the format's
needed for for implementation as well I
have some Adria already told but we did
some updates on the information
architecture diagram there are still
some naming to be to be revised
regarding some some details on flows and
pages we need to sync and just confirm
that everything goes well another thing
that was included was the presentation
presentation
what is IDM we we finished on last
Friday and presented like yesterday
morning to the moxa team another another
thing that Andrey already mentioned was
the user stories tasks and the scrum
board for prepared for the IDM sprints
the next next steps for for ADM will be
the
for now I'm starting with a setup block
or user journey it's the the first one
since will will have details and
components on the page that could appear
could be translated for other journeys
and pages so yeah I'll start with a
setup blocker and then I'll continue
with the lock screen is returning this
is but basically for me this will be for
this week and maybe the next one as well
and yet that's it that's almost it
alright thank you and right for your it
dates so next one on the list is Pedro
okay hi everyone
so this week and I did finish the PR
that I was opening last week and so the
animations under specified are almost
finished and we are missing one or two
animations related to the pub but now
that we are focusing on IBM and it will
be on standby but then most of the
animations are finished right now so the
PR was was open it and we are I am
waiting for and rest review and for now
I am setting up the the repo for IBM
UIKit so you have the link here if you
want to check it out and I am look now
on the specify privacy policy and so as
I said last week we are waiting for the
next iteration so we we have a draft
that Margo gave us but we gave Marvel
our feedback and we are waiting for for
the changes so next steps are related to
the implementation of the initial
components that Andres design for the
style guide of IBM and that's pretty
much it
all right thank you thank you for your
plates and by the way I'm not asking
questions we get is went through I don't
have really much time so we don't have
question if you have if you have any
question please follow up on our C so
that we can follow up on the questions
and answers all right the next the next
person in there go ahead I'm just
thinking an alternative is we could also
you know I can just restart the video
after 30 minutes so you mean we kids
concatenate the video afterwards I guess
I yeah all right so if you have any
questions for injury salsa please do
them does anyone have one no also for
vigil does anyone has a question for
Pedro no so and for me I have a question
for question all right since the
questions anyway you can ask the
questions whenever you you if you that
you so the next one is hi guys so last
week I was working on trying to improve
the establishment of membership for
collaborations so currently we use kind
of gossip protocol to establish a
membership CR the membership CITT um and
it turns out that sends a lot of
messages so i implemented a solution
which basically uses our existing
collaboration gossip or a collaboration
protocol so there's not quite so many
messages passed and it works but header
pointed out that it's not very scalable
so now I'm looking at doing away
completely with that membership CR DT
and instead using a kind of hybrid of
the so the DF set is topologically quite
similar to how chord DHT works so I'm
looking at using chord
and possibly Kadima ADHD to setup
discovery and kind of instead of having
to have knowledge of the entire network
just having to have knowledge of a few
specific nodes that are close to us in
our neighborhood so that's basically
what I've been working on all right so
that's all your updates what is that's
it yeah all right does anyone have any
questions for Duke I actually have one
regarding the membership
you're talking about the coalition
membership membership so it's the
collaboration membership so basically
what we do at the moment is we set up a
gossip network that's app wide and then
we share all of the collaboration
memberships for each particular
collaboration over that gossip network
so I don't think we actually need the
gossip network or the collaboration
membership and so it should decrease a
lot of our set-up time and a lot of
complexity if we can find an alternative
method and it'll also make it more
scalable enlisted anyone had more
questions for you
no right so let's move on to the next
person if she's Victor I think yes so
most of the week I was working on Jay
cause all three into plain text mapping
the difference is that this 2.1 version
it has chained elites because script
articles optimizations and because
everything and change delete so a kind
of new thing it wasn't used in any
previous version of RJ or C key so I had
to make and because this particular
algorithm is kind of performance
critical it is like the performance
critical loops so I had to solve it with
very primitive data structure side
didn't have the option of using any
sophisticated latest lectures and III
think I did it but I'm still be bugging
it so like a small disaster all right
thank you Peter please anyone has a
question right so moving on to the next
person
Jim so just
I'm sorry continuing on we thought I
started last week and Pedro had done
some fixes to the changes to the RDA to
fix a previous bug I was finding and I
wanted just to see if I could reproduce
the the old bug and confirmed that it
had been fixed by the problem is I only
have the bug happened sort of randomly
after like doing really large huge
numbers appears collaborating together
and random sequences of events is really
finding a needle in a haystack to try to
figure out you know what that particular
scenario was I had some captures traced
and I spent a few days trying to dig
through it and try to reduce it down to
smaller test case I basically had to
give up because I could get it to like
99% do what it did previously if I just
can get it converge to the exact error
situation on the old source code that it
did so so that just sort of told me that
you know my sort of hybrid approach of
doing manual trick do you a lot of
manual work with the automated tracing
it just needs to be fully automated all
the way through in terms of generating
these test cases so I ended up moving on
to the next step which is how to replace
all the little console logs I'm doing
with a real distributed tracing
framework and there's a few things out
there one's called open tracing one is
called open census open they're used a
lot at places like Google and uber and I
experimented a bit with that and I have
a demo if people want to see
we have time all right does anyone have
a question for Jim one right I have a
buck all right do you have any sort of
test that's sort of at a lower level
choose what order the connections come
in basically what I'm thinking is if you
had the right the the places where you
have variability is both in the order of
like the characters that get typed but
also in the way that the data flows
between the nodes are you able to have
lower control over how that goes so that
you can then say like okay I'm randomly
gonna try all these different orderings
we'll see which one's working which ones
fail yeah that that's exactly that I've
been doing over the past week is trying
to figure out how to get these you know
doing these random tested then how to
get it completely deterministic so the
problem so it's it's a bit like it's
basically fuzzing like we have a random
there's already a test and there's this
random collaboration so to me like if
you're doing a random test that's
fuzzing so we are sort of fuzzing it
already it's just we're sort of changing
that we're keeping the static parameters
and we're just letting it do its thing
and it's it just there's a little random
which keyboard the delay between the
keys being pressed and that besa fuzzing
test so that's definitely exercising it
and it is even with all the new changes
it's it's really really stable now it's
like maybe works nine out of ten times
but one out of ten times with I'm
talking about like huge numbers appears
and larger collaborations it'll still
get stuck sometimes so this is probably
like little race condition type things
going on that we haven't really will
really thought so at this one I'll be
able to capture the trace capture all
the spots then we'll have we'll know
if this serious events happened when the
series of events happened we had an air
they'll be able to take the trace which
is just available as a JSON and flip
that directly into a test and then we
can sort of like go in but I've done the
work to figure out how to take one of
these the sequence of steps and turn it
manually into a unit test that doesn't
use all of the uses like the course ERD
T but we're not using the actual sinking
machinery so so we can say if you put
this in here and put this here this here
they're defector clocks we have that we
have the CR DT so we can reproduce that
and it'll be like oh it's usually
something like the vector clocks are
being handled wrong something and then I
think would be very interesting would be
making changing the the the sink the
sinking machinery so it's a little bit
more testable and that we can we can
sort of factor out the randomness that
you get from the networking so we can
basically throw in a mock Network Clair
and drive it all off of these tracing
cuts so just capturing the trace data is
the first step
it makes a lot of sense all right
did you know when I have more questions
for Jim all right so next one I think
sardine
yeah so a lot of this week was just
making sure that some of the append-only
dag synchronization or like the multi
writer I canna stuff was working
properly and testing nicely and I could
get everything pushed out to github so
that that works the the big changes
there that I linked to are mostly
there's a lot more documentation so Ken
can attest as to whether there was
enough or not enough documentation
because he took a little look at it
earlier and yeah some of the main thing
to go look at if you're just sort of
curious as to what's office in the
resolvers folder there's a list of a
couple of data structures built on top
of the synchronization so one of them is
just a really simple like grow only said
the it's big k i'm older i can't be a a
last writer where it wins over writing
structure but we're of two people right
at the same time there's a conflict um
so that that's there i also was working
with coal or inlet p2p with some issues
bootstrapping to a local IP FS demon we
couldn't quite figure out what was going
wrong but we figured out where it was
happening so I rewrote the integration
test to use a local like a test specific
bootstrapping node that you would sort
of instantiate and have all of your
internal nodes connect to instead of
using your local daemon and that was
that's that's working nicely and quickly
now and then I've been
putting some thought and chatting with
with Durkin with Cole a little bit about
how I want to do basically also this
membership problem I was originally
gonna just try and use like pub/sub has
the same issue right when you try and
get into it when you try and get into a
channel it's how do you figure out how
to propagate the messages amongst the
members of the channel and seeing if
there's like a common interface that I
can extract from mesh or gossip sub and
go ipfs and the stuff that we have going
on in peer base and make something
similar and then also trying to sort of
document a little bit of my thoughts
while this is going along so I can put
that back into the the concepts document
so that's mostly what I've been up to
and I'm gonna probably keep pursuing a
little more of that all right I have one
question the module that I put here is
in Goa correct the IP share IP yeah yeah
yeah yeah because in the mood to write
or synchronization of and only tags
that's that's very interesting I am
looking forward to see what you come up
with I mean if we have that we could
module for instance you could module
operation based er duties on on the X
and so on that would be really great to
have salts from our site so that you can
language and use that to build more
awesome things on top this is related to
the things that we've discussed in ibid
if we opted for ipad2 to be like
operation based for instance where you
had devices with no devices and so on we
can you know basically weed out the deck
and converse to a state we lose it to a
state based on the operations
and if you solve those kind of the
problem of having the the head
synchronized on all the devices and that
will be really awesome to have does
anyone have any other questions for I
didn't it's just a brief or a brief
response or follow-up to that is yeah
there's not necessarily the route if you
look at the resolvers example the idea
is to make it like a little bit clearer
on how how we would make new ones
but in terms of the underlying like bag
synchronization it's not not too much to
write home about and that right now it's
mostly doing like you synchronize two
sets by just sending the whole thing but
I've tried to push obviously tries to
push off work in favor of more API stuff
because I think that the graph sync
replication stuff that's now being like
more actively worked on and there's
meetings every Friday I'm gonna I'm
gonna try and sit in on will be solving
a lot of the problems that I'll need
them and make yourself so I suspect
that's gonna get faster over time where
I'll make a a new synchronization or a
new approach to that afterwards but for
now I just want to make sure it works
and we have the api's reasonably in
english it alright make sense
these are more questions for adding no
alright so I think we are we're finished
with the round of updates so we are
heading to the next part and by the way
there do you have the amount of time and
like for the video recording it's not
really telling me all right keep going
and I'll start a new reading if we cut
out alright if you'd get this out just
informants and we we start the so in
terms of the second part we have at
least one demo from which is which is
named you see with the tracing of P
waves with open sea and Susan Jagger I
don't know who was was the person that
put here me it was no has
you have the your time in the demo you
cannot share off after yes destruction
and conceal the share is second I think
you can start sharing yeah okay I'm
seeing it in the screen
no I did the wrong screen okay the
screen okay so it's not much
basically I can run the random
collaboration random tested from pure
pad previously before might modified it
so it logged a bunch of stuff out to the
screen I'm not doing that anymore I'm
sending all the trace data to a server
and I'm using a library from Google
called open census there's a competing
library called open tracing so this few
different ones to try and I'm using a
web interface called the server that I'm
sending to is called jeager which is
from uber so so I ran the trace and the
only thing different here is at the end
I've got the captured facing I click on
here and this is the jaggery UI and you
can see though this Tracy that was
captured I realize I'm doing something a
little bit wrong here how I'm organizing
it but I'm gonna change that after today
and then you can see this what the
random collaboration test does is I
think I have three different peers and
each type five characters at random and
you can see I've written out in the
title here that the peer ID that ends in
s HC type type the letter A and I can
expand it and I can I can see the the
clocks and they're capped into the code
and I put little the
it's in the code to emit all this data
at the appropriate time you can just go
over time so on the second P R the
letter P was tied third P R letter E was
tight and then whoops
and so so you can see all these letters
got typed and then eventually the this
is all happening pretty quickly then it
decided to just they compared the vector
clocks decided to push a batch and you
can you can see it put a whole bunch of
letters together and made a batch so eat
efg hijk and then it is sent it to the
from curiam st-pierre sh seats so you
can see down here this is where it
applied it so
it's pretty awesome yeah so you can see
like before and after but you didn't
really change much in that case I guess
guess that maybe this was the one
my tags you gotta click open they're at
me oops
Oh unlimited minutes oh yeah I think we
need to research this really really as
well I'm going to do some more work on
this one I'm going to try to be able to
take take this raw stuff you can get it
out of the system as JSON you can click
on here increase JSON and that's all the
data so I can like slurp that in and
build sort of determinate reproduce the
search of the events that happen in a
more deterministic way and if we
actually find bugs we can turn them in
unit tests these are the great
enhancements compared to the to the
previous Gemini TV show yes terms of
debugging trusted and so yeah I think
the big thing is we've driven most of
the small bugs out of the system with
manual techniques that was happening is
the bugs that are still there are really
really really hard to reproduce and find
and these sort of fuzzing techniques and
spitting out huge number of peers and
lots lots of collaboration it does
tickle it in lots of different ways that
things happen but then you can't figure
out what happened because it's a needle
in a haystack sort of situation so this
will help us really take it to make it
like a hundred percent solid and I think
that'll be really good for pure pad and
any other apps that we build on it based
on peer base yeah and this type that
these tools are actually useful like
there's a bit experimentation on the
file coin team and ipfs cluster team
with distributed tracing team so I'm
talking with those people to compare
notes
all right so I don't have any questions
regarding the edema that Jim just gave
yes yeah I have a question so Jim I know
a bunch of places in the code we're kind
of we're passing around objects that
kind of collect information like we have
replication or statistics and and now
tracing money if if maybe we can use
events more effectively to you know so
we don't have so many dependencies but
Germany thoughts on that yeah I think
there's a lot of things we can do with
the code after having this get into it I
think like just adding on additional
layers of testing forces you to clean up
the code because you can't instrumented
in the right places unless it's
structured in a certain way and I just
just doing this type of work forces
forces the code to get better so you
know I think you're having some more
events I don't know I think I think it's
this getting bad with it like there's a
whole there's a lot of things that I
understand with these tracing tools
where they talk about they can you can
Artie I'm not using it but you can
actually like match packs so you can
have things running on multiple servers
and you know messages are being sent
back and forth either you know RPC or
HTTP load balancers that sort of thing
and these tools all have ways to match
the packets together and propagate
context so I really like to see if we
can do some of that stuff but that would
probably mean like we it also means like
I think like perhaps like vector clocks
or like something that gets propagated
from one peer to another peer and
perhaps it could be fitted like really
cleaned up a lot internally yeah god
this is really really great information
to have or a really useful tool to have
I have one question for you Jim which is
it seems that the way you add entries or
records to the dresser is to do it
explicitly in the code right you will
use a library or something and you issue
a new record of details
the question is let's say that you are
using a module that's for instance
there's something I know maybe
cryptography and you want to do trace
and traces inside it but you don't own
leave the module isn't it isn't really
possible to you know alter the code or
somehow add those instrumentation inside
that module or maybe the module should
expose some events from the outside to
the outside so that you can do logging
and tracing yeah I mean especially in
JavaScript land you can do things like
you can use proxy JavaScript objects you
can actually create folks to like map
into things that you don't want to
modify you can do things like that
there's a whole there's a whole other
world of apart from this distributed
tracing there's like Chrome has a whole
tracing framework built into it which is
separate for the things in this so you
can tracing at that level but it it
would be up to you totally get the data
from one chrome instance and others this
tracing framework is really designed for
like the back end of like Google and
uber where they have like lots of micro
services they kind of like tie them all
together so you can but there's also
like on on Linux there's the whole ebps
tracing framework which is sort of like
each race on Solaris and my old boss
used to be the guy with the guy created
dtrace in the first place I know I know
all those guys knew I was gone over the
Linux world and their greasy reproducing
all the work we did in Solaris and this
Linux world is like Netflix and there so
you can I think my dream is to get like
the the Chrome's world the chrome
tracing stuff working together with the
slow level Linux system tracing stuff
together with this sort of like
distributed instrumenting swarms of you
know hundreds thousands of peers talking
together and capturing a full system
trace of that I think that's that would
be really interesting like really drive
the performance and stability right
thank you for your answer does anyone
has more questions to Jim no all right
so I think there's no more demos for
these for the second part let me just
share my screen again right so by the
way are you seeing my screen correct
okay can you see my screen yeah yes all
right so regarding the questions I have
I've put one question for for has to
discuss so a question arise from Pedro
about how can we report progress on IBM
more in terms of the media meetings
progress reports just like the ones you
we have today we had today
like reporting progress in terms of what
we're doing what we done and what what's
next and it's more like face-to-face
meetings and so on of course we have the
progress being reported on the
management repository when and so on
with issues and tasks and user journeys
but perhaps we should also report
progress in a weekly minutes just just
like the one we have today so the
question is should me the people that
are working on actively on the IDM be
reporting the progress as part of this
Meetup
please call or should we create another
time frame another another time another
schedule for this meeting what health
what are your opinions on these subjects
there's two disabilities I mean we can
do what what we have done today like
Mike and Reza and I and and Pedro gave
support about stuff there they are doing
they were doing or we can for instance
in the next hour
like like say to from 5 to 6 p.m. GMT
plus 0 we could have meeting dedicated
to that to the onion my feelings is that
if we report progress of IDM inside
these Mira will over extend it probably
every time because we are already 3 and
Paulo Paulo is already joining joining
the team so perhaps we we will always be
over schedule and doing the record
session so I don't know if you what are
you sure about this and what are your
thoughts about this
the
think I'd I'd be into a second meeting
just so I can focus on that one all
right what Hannity yeah so it's two
things
aye aye there's probably like a little
bit of an intermediary you're right it
probably should be a separate there
should be a separate thing for a lot of
like the details of what's going on
inside but it may be worth having at
least some part or some interface of
like what it is that's like the dynamic
data thing and what is the separate
project thing and since we I think it's
hard to see cuz I'm a mobile I think we
thought we have Molly in the call and I
feel like she's been doing a lot of this
recently with how different groups
interact with each other I'd be
interested what she has to say morning
sorry I don't normally attend these
calls because there are a little early
my time but I was really excited to get
to come to this one so thanks for for
letting me sit in it's really fun to get
to see awesome demos we've been thinking
about how to structure meetings and some
other teams for example go ipfs we kind
of restructure and stuff so that we
spend more time on discussion and less
time on individual updates but other
Tiger team groups like having your own
space to dive into the details and stuff
can be really really valuable as long as
you can also get new people excited
about stuff and they're aware enough
about what you're doing that they can
come in and help out and suggest things
to you so I guess you know one one
potential path for you guys is to
continue using this as kind of status
update and then have a second identity
meeting to talk about all of the hard
nitty-gritty details of like what's
blocked this week kind of like the
sprint process that you're trying to go
through what are people trying to
accomplish on how to do it another
option is I guess like trying to form
your own working group and then just do
kind of identity stuff but then attend a
lot of other teams meetings to make sure
that you're getting staying close enough
to all the work that's being done
those are those are two potential
options I guess maybe maybe a third is
to like have I think this is maybe kind
of what like I peeled he does where they
have medulla pp they have like a status
update section where people try really
hard to fill out status updates ahead of
time and then they have a second half of
the meeting that people can drop off
work they're not interested which goes
into kind of more detail on things
things you could kind of go that route
again I'm I'm agnostic here I'm just
happy to be here okay Thank you Thank
You Molly I think we are more doing the
third option that he said right now we
have like a 30 minutes wonderful dates
and then we have 30 minutes of questions
and and demos and perhaps if you want to
discuss some something in in deep and we
can we can do that during the second
time regarding the other two options I'm
more inclined to do the first one with a
catch which which is you know have a
separate identity mediate meeting or
call just like this one but with it with
a twist which is one of one of the the
persons doing doing the identity
projects will be also part of this
meeting dynamic later to just give you
give you a quick overview of how the
project is going and a quick up later on
it as well it's like the top the top
headlines of the program's just
important departed pieces that will also
work out what do you think
I think my one suggestion it for you
would be make sure you take notes from
this other meeting and publish it to the
group so that people can also stay on
top of it asynchronously yeah we will
definitely motivate uh zoom link to
would be nice yeah I'm actually gonna
file a final quick issue because I think
the Johnny and I were sitting on the
wrong zoom link for a little while and
and we would love to make sure we can
always find you guys yeah we are using
like the the dark zoom account I think -
are you referring to that - yes thank
you nan Pedro call I think we're still
working on it so here is the glue that
holds everything you could I mean I
think is also in transit so it's quite
difficult for him to be here and we had
we had issues about the zooms account
because I think only few people control
the working group zoom accounts so we
can't really eat or start the meeting
and records using the geniculate and
capabilities zoom account or channel
public zoom zoom channel so that's why
we are using the zoom ins account three
of these meeting so all right so
regarding this specific question I think
I will suggest doing a second identity
meetup or meaning and I will try to
schedule perhaps right after this meal
so that if people want to be you know
interested they can just you know take
two hours of their time to dedicate to
the DBC and if they are also interested
in identity they they take the second
hour right after to attend to the
identity meeting as well go ahead yeah
I'm just wondering cuz you're saying
you're saying that it might be good to
kind of provide updates from the IDM
meeting in in this meeting so maybe that
one should go first yeah oh I see yeah
yes so
so you're saying that if for Isis if I
can come to them to this meeting and
provide progress it will be a good thing
right and and then we have the second
meeting which is more in detail about
what people are actually doing the
process of it right yeah it could be
that way I was just saying that if
you're going to be providing updates
from the idea meeting maybe that one
should go first and then we have this
meeting I see makes sense
the issue is that I think is that some
people are in the United States and and
I think that 3 p.m. is like very early
for them so perhaps we could schedule
for Monday I guess that's true how many
West Coast people we have yeah that's
right one possible solution is to do on
Monday but they will not be right one
after the other I don't know so the
challenge also is at in 10 minutes is
the w3c credentials working group which
is a lot of the sustained research
actually coming out of that so I usually
attend that meeting and I apologize I
you missing this meeting for months and
months and so I think it's just tough to
for scheduling I did get can give it
just a quick update before I in the next
ten minutes all right think I took me I
couldn't log on early enough to actually
give you an update so if you guys recall
I wrote the IP ID spec for the dig
method so basically as publishing at
first just JSON to IP NS but now
actually the updated version of it is IP
LD and there's some issues right now
with the the way the w3c is actually
approaching this it's not deterministic
and I've been pushing them to use C bore
as a deterministic serialization of the
the JSON they're actually coming around
to that and actually they're coming
around to using cozy versus Jose for the
signature suites so that's a C bore
serialization of signatures are the
Venge ADA beauties in the Jose package
put the link in for my updated paper
from Toronto from the rebooting web of
trust which is basically using IP LD as
a framework for publishing the did
document um this actually uh Kim Duffy
who's on the credentials working group
the Derby 3c is on the co-author as well
as Kristen mud fits from you port so
actually there's a lot of traction with
you port to scale there a big issue is
in transactions is that they have to pay
the gas cost for each of their
transactions so they have yet to go to
name net because it'll be cost
prohibitive to actually for them to use
any of the their current infrastructure
so they are actually are thinking about
adopting IP LD in their ther stack and
using a side tree so basically creating
a Merkle tree and IP LD and basically
aggregating all of the transactions into
one transaction that's rooted in it one
smart smart contract so I've actually
basically you can get thousands there
were hundreds of thousands of of hashes
and links into one document that's gets
published it actually it decreases the
gasket to pay it for you know once every
five minutes or so it was just actually
how open open hashes open Peters stuff I
from Bitcoin so so anyways but the good
news is that I have a couple of issues
filed for PRS for the w3c work the
issues with the w3c is that it's not
deterministic and it's it's mutable data
structures so it's is vulnerable from
the get-go so this base based you know
major security concerns
they're I think they're reluctant to use
IP LD because IP LD is a competitor to
Jason LD Jason LD is what man knows
boonie created this it's got a lot of
traction as a pseudo RDF model and I
think IPL D is deterministic with a CID
it's it's much more robust but there's
just more political challenges with the
w3c being married to the HTTP protocol
so I
no the chair of the identity working
group in I Triple E for healthcare
applications because I'm a physician and
so I'm and it might be subtraction to
get some of these standardizations
flushed out in in the I Triple D and
they're very supportive and consensus
and in fact Heather
Flannery is actually as the chair of the
of the working group for blockchain and
just super alleged technologies and she
works at consensus so we actually
Christian Heather and I are actually
getting some traction and other
standards bodies for identity working
outside of the w3c which has a very much
web 2.0 API old-school technology sort
of approach to it that they're that
they're that they bring with their
baggage so I think so I think identity a
lot of the work is coming out of w3c but
I think there's some traction for the
the IP LD approach that I implemented it
an IP ID might actually get standardized
in other standards bodies so that said
I'd love to join you guys in in
Barcelona and then in the end of the
month I'm not sure if I can convince my
my main investor aka my wife that I need
to fly to Barcelona without her but I'll
let you know I think I will submit the
paper the the thing I put in the in the
in the notes is the paper I wrote from
Toronto and it still hasn't been
finalized I'm not sure what the the
issue is they haven't published it yet
mostly I think we're waiting for
feedback from Christian all right so
that's my big dump thank you for
listening all right Thank You Johnny
but by the way could you please include
any relevant things the notes so that we
can and I specifically I really wanted
to dig further on all the material that
you have regarding what what what you're
doing with HIV and a key ID using IP LD
and all the you port guys
more quick inari on using ipfs and
ability to storage although the idea of
metadata if there's many references it's
all actually in the paper I put the link
in Duffy for easy IP LD as a framework
for the did document
I'm I'm using four did authentication
and the P if this is just it has to do
with standards so my approach for did
off is you basically you offended Kate
using the quick protocol using lib p2p
and that's that if you indicated with a
bi-directional cryptographic self signed
certificate you've authenticated but we
all have to pay the issue is everyone
has to be on the same curve in order to
do that so he or you have to use the
library like you basically need to spin
up an ephemeral node for the p2p the
issue right now has to do with key
exchange so if we do key exchange
everyone has to use the same key but
everyone has different keys there is
either RSA key which is the default for
lib p2p there's edie to 55.9 which would
sovereign uses then there is sec P 256
which is what Christian you for uses
then you have DLS signatures which is
what z cash uses so all of those are not
compatible in order to do did
authentication so that this is where
we're stuck as far as we have to have a
a in our case lib peter peas endpoint is
basically the p2p peer that you're
dialing up and connecting and then you
you then I'll send a kate using an
ephemeral key and then you exchange a
shared secret to actually to do it over
some curve to actually then connect so
the way I approached it was I'm right
now I'm using SEC p25 6k one and they
did document but that's published to the
master secret which is actually is in
the EDT EDD to 55.9 so that's the secret
key that actually is hidden and it's
never revealed to the user but all of
what I'm dealing with is actually is in
Sec be 2 5 6 K 1 is ephemeral as a
hierarchal deterministic wallet so
actually I can I can use
one at a time I can I can know if I want
to actually make it so it's a update to
the document and best keep on having one
master seed insect V 2006 k1 but all of
that is hidden behind a t25 work 509
which is which is the key key hiding
another key again another big long dump
I'm sorry I've missed phone call
yeah I really have to dig into that
document and read what's coming up with
and I wanna you know step tell you that
we are discussing right now is really
important to the IDM projects as you
know we are one of the formations is
very foul crimes but but as you said
they are using Jason ditional D which
has the contacts problem of putting two
two links to two HTTP links that's a
problem because as I said they are
multiple and and it has the almost sort
of problems on that on the other end if
we opt out on using verifiable clients
we might be left behind in terms of
using open standards and being
interoperable with other kind of wallets
or or ages user agent that use those
kind of credentials and then that's
where we need to come up with a with a
solution or decision about that we we
aren't doing that without credentials
just yet
that's more like in one mouth to one
more than half timeline so we have time
to decide on that still have time so we
are approaching the final minutes so
does anyone have further questions
regarding anything that you want to
discuss what happened yeah I just have
one question for you Johnny you're
saying you guys or you think you're
moving away from IP NS is that correct
so I use IP and s just because it's
actually easy and so it's a
general-purpose key value store
cryptographic key value store you port
is actually thinking about using IP LD
but publishing the IP LDC ID to a spark
contract and at one approach sovereign
approached me they're interested in
using IP LD for pairwise signatures and
so basically you don't yet you basically
you hash it and you don't store it and I
as a block in IP FS so it's an ephemeral
so you can recreate it and it's
basically you're using a CID that's not
stored into the public resolvable nature
so it's used really using IP LD as a
reusable framework for publishing added
document and that that CID can be
published anywhere it could be in the
simplest way with like zero lines of
code when I originally wrote it was
basically just publishing it to IP NS
the is the there is the issue about
resolving I think that's been fixed at
least in the go version of ipfs in
Florida 1.18 which is using pub/sub and
so the initial resolution and I also in
my go code basically wait for three
peers to respond back and and that's
good enough because ultimately that
first time after the first time I'm
waiting for it to be done over pubs um
and and in a in the go version there is
a nonce and so when you republish
something to the nonce it actually goes
and it fetches what the current nonce is
and increments it I don't think that's
happening in the Jas version version
multi writer is actually is an issue in
Jas but I'm using go yeah you're right
the reason I'm asking is because we're
also looking at a type ENSO I kind of
wanted to ask you like how do you feel
about the performance of it do you think
it's sort of it's heading towards being
good enough for very general purpose use
case so it's you stole
timing out at over a minute for 16 peers
to come back I resolved it to three and
and it's Altima about how the
optimization of the DHT I have it down
to three and it's working fine because
it it's waiting for three and then it's
really waiting for the pub/sub you're
basically listening to updates for four
pub/sub tonight and I think caching
those so that's been good enough for my
use case and also because we are Lee as
a reference are focusing on package
managers there will be a lot of fee for
to put into optimizing the DHT and many
other aspects of affairs and and so and
so because of that I think I profess and
I penis will be much faster in the
community at least I can come to this
conclusion by talking with Bosco he's
working for me to beat him and they are
on that on the HT performance
[Music]
and then back it in Berlin talked about
we have to have enough nodes that I
using
elliptic curve by default and Kyle
actually spun up a bunch of nodes on
digital ocean to improve the robustness
of the DHT and did some testing and it
it was better but it's still after an
hour or two it's stalled back out and
actually it was at another minute again
but like I said I'm just waiting for
three peers and it should be resolving
over experimental pub/sub now so just to
penalize Johnny and we're going to start
as we discussed a new identity meeting
and about that yeah man that it's
project so I will really have to have
you there for a few meetings that it's
possible of course I think your
influence on my PID and the other stuff
is real
because of their work so if possible I
will post an issue on camera demo with
all the details about the meetings if
possible folded up and you know it's
possible appearing in one of to one or
two whenever possible if you can see me
email directly I have thirty four
thousand mentions on github
alright so I'm gonna close this meaning
we are past the schedule so thank you
very much for for having is called with
you and see you next one bye bye